Okay, since I want to learn how to "Rice" a Linux. I made this guide for myself 
on how to "Rice" my linux installation. 

For this guide, we will use the base install terminal emulator and bash. Since I
am on Mint 20.1 with Xfce as my DE,  the base terminal is xfec4-terminal and the 
Bash shell. There are alternative terminal emulators and shells, but I will go 
with the base for this guide for the sake of simplicity. And I am assuming the 
readers of this guide are as well, and on popular OOTB Distros like Mint, 
Manjaro, Ubuntu, and what have you and on different DE spins that comes with 
their own terminal emulators(KDE being Konsole, Gnome being Gnome-terminal and 
etc) and bash shell as default shell.

Although this is guide is for new Ricers, I am assuming you have basic knowledge
on shell commands and how to use the terminal and how to install binaries with 
the package manager(apt, dnf, pacman and etc) that comes with your distro. 
That's the bare minimum prerequisite.

There are some several installations before we begin ricing.

First come are the window managers. My preference is awesome and openbox for 
starters, we will begin with them. 

As to why I picked them, OpenBox is very mature and documented Stacking Window 
Manager while Awesome is a Dynamic Window Manager with a beginner friendly 
setup. As to why I didn't pick i3 and bspwm, they require more configurations, 
and for those who likes gaps, you have to get another i3, called i3-gaps which 
are not commonly available in package managers.

We will begin with openbox, assuming we have the gtk2.0+ dependancies installed
in our system, if not, our package manager will do it for ourselves.


So we need to install four programs
    >   openbox -OpenBox is your window manager.
    >   obconf  -Obconf will configure openbox's visuals
    >   menumaker -Menumaker will configure your context menu i.e the right 
        click menu(Openbox calls them pipemenu, basically its native application
        launcher)
        *You can download this here: https://sourceforge.net/projects/menumaker/

After you got the above, install these: 
    >   rofi  -Rofi is an application launcher, basically type in the program 
        to launch it; there are several alternatives, but this one is better 
        for beginners.
    >   lxappearance -This will help select the gtk theme borders of your 
        graphical programs. There is oomox, but this one is far easier.
    >   compton/picom - This is a compositor able to be used on window managers 
        rather than DE's like compiz, it will give your more graphical effects 
        like dropshadow and transperancy
    >   nitrogen - This is a wallpaper selector, there is Feh as an alternative, 
        but requires more scripting
    

Obviously, no Rice is complete without a cli software: a filemanager, a music 
player, a panel or taskbars, a notification popup. And other oddities, like
automatic color theme selector for the terminal.

We will get into them more later. But first let's do the base installations. 

While installing - it will suggest several packages, depending on your package
manager. Mine automatically installed obconf along with openbox.

Now, that it is install. It's a good idea to logout and login a new session
with openbox.

Now, that you are in openbox, you will see a blank screen with just the mouse.
Wait a minute, if you right click you will get a context menu or pipe menu
as openbox calls it. By default it should have a decent pipe menu if you 
installed it through a package rather than from source, but we are going to make
it look better.

Now, let's add menumaker. If you download, untar it with the 'tar -txvf' command
and run './configure && make && make install' in the folder as sudo, and it will
install so aslong as you have python2 or python3 in your system.

After it has installed run this command. 

'mmaker -t xterm -f OpenBox3'

Remember, if you are using something else, like Fluxbox or IceWM for example,
you can always reference the wiki.archlinux.org for those particular WMs. 

Infact, I use them a lot for my other things.

Once done. Reset your Openbox, now right click and you will see a nicer menu.
If you will notice some settings from let's say, Cinnamon or KDE won't carry 
over, like the icon theme if you open your file manager and what have you.

Now install rofi. 






 




